Chapter4 (#50)
UBC-MDS/ds-toolbox: chapters/en/slides/module4/module4_01.md

---
type: slides
title: 'module4_01'
---

# Viewing the history of a project

---
# Viewing the history of a project

There are two ways you can view the Git history of a project:

> **In the remote**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**On the remote**
```

1. On GitHub through the repo's code commit view

> **In your computer**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**On your computer**
```

> 2. On Jupyter Lab through the repo's code commit view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In Jupyter Lab through the repo's code commit view
```

> 3. On your local machine using `git log`

Reviewer: Since you have "In your computer" on line 15, saying "On your local machine" sounds redundant.

> Notes: Do you remember the commit messages that we write for the different changes that we save from the project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notes: Do you remember the commit messages that we used to write at the time of making a commit, for saving the state of a project?
```

It is possible to have a look at the history of the full project with any of these 3 different methods

---

# 1. Viewing the history of a project: GitHub

<center>

> <img src='/module4/vc-history-gb.png' width="90%" alt="404 image"/>

Reviewer: I know it would be hard to recreate these screenshots, but I think this has been captured on a high-resolution screen and the font sizes are too small. Perhaps you could zoom in and also shrink the browser window when taking this screenshot.

</center>

> Notes: On GitHub, on the repo's landing page click "*N* commit" link (where *N* is the number of commits made on the repo)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notes: On GitHub, on the repo's landing page click "*N* commits" link (where *N* is the number of commits made on the repo)
```

---

# 1. Viewing the history of a project: GitHub

<center>

> <img src='/module4/vc-history-gb-2.png' width="90%" alt="404 image"/>

Reviewer: Same comment about font sizes here.

</center>

> Notes: Now we have a project, but only 3 commits. You can identify all the parts of each commit, includind day it was made, author, hash and also go back to the repository at the moment of this change chicking the button `<>`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notes: Now we have a project, but only 3 commits. You can identify all parts of each commit, including the day it was made, author, hash. You can also go back to the repository at the moment of making this change by clicking the `<>` button.
```

---

# 2. Viewing the history of a project: Jupyter Lab

<center>

<img src='/module4/vc-history-jl-2.png' width="90%" alt="404 image"/>

</center>

> Notes: Accessing the history of your project is very simple, you just have to look for the History tab within the Git options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notes: Accessing the history of your project is very simple in JupyterLab, you just have to look for the "History" tab within the Git options.
```

---

# 3. Viewing the history of a project: the Terminal

> 

Reviewer: I think it would be good to insert a `<br>` here so as to create some vertical space between the slide title and the image.

<center>

<img src='/module4/vc-history-terminal.png' width="90%" alt="404 image"/>

</center>

Notes: If you want to access your project information using the terminal you can use the `git log` command.

> Pay attention that here you are visualizing the long version of the hash and not the 7 character length-version displayed by default in Jupyter Lab or GitHub. In both cases, you will be able to identify the commit with the hash.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pay attention that here you are looking at the long version of the hash and not the 7-character long version displayed by default in Jupyter Lab or GitHub. In both cases, you will be able to identify the commit using its hash.
```
